XML and XHTML. Briefly spoke about them before. XHTML is completely defunct. You don't even need to learn about it other than to know that if anybody who's got a web page with XHTML is probably going to be able to be hacked.
So that's it. XML is like this right here. This is what XML looks like. It has a header at the top that tells what kind of XML is being used. It has a mandatory doctype header which tells what standard is being used.
And then it has a number of elements that have SVG in this case a tag. Direct elements. This is a self-closing tag. So it looks a lot like HTML. And XHTML is this really horrible idea to make another version of HTML4 which is dead and defunct now.
Now don't use it. Use HTML5. But it looks like this. So the only time you're ever going to see XML in modern practice is in SVG's scalable vector graphics which are pictures, images that have instructions about how to draw themselves like this.
So I did another video about raster versus rasterized raster images versus scalable vector graphics. That's a really important thing to understand that you don't have to get into it unless you're going to become a designer or something. But you just need to know what they are.
So like a level 1 knowledge on a scale of 1 to 10 being you invented it. And so this is it. This is all you need to know. This is what an image looks like. You can actually animate scalable vector graphic images using XML and intermixing JavaScript and all kinds of fun stuff in there.
But that's for another day for somebody else who wants to do that. That's not mandatory as a beginner. You just need to know what XML is. Another couple, another, there's a few other important things that were written with XML.
So the MathML standard is XML, but nobody hardly ever uses it. They use MathJax instead, separate video about that. The Microsoft Word, almost all Microsoft Word documents, as far as I know, are XML in the core. So there are some applications that store their files as XML.
But it's one of these things where you'll never read it, kind of like PostScript with a PDF. You know it's there and you know what it is, but you don't necessarily have to deal with it. You might be one of the people that ends up having to deal with XML, in which case you know how to get started with it.
But that's it. I needed to at least make a video to mention it because somebody's going to ask, what about XML, what about XHTML and DHTML, dynamic HTML, which is sort of a riff off of the XHTML kind of thing.
Just now you know that these things exist. XML is still relevant, it's still used, but it's primarily a file format for things like Word and SVG and stuff like that. So it's not going to be something you're going to have to probably work with ever unless you become a specialist that's generating that kind of stuff.
For the record, WebAPI is the ability to, you know, put published data on the web in data form that can be consumed by other applications. That is done by JSON, which we will be learning in depth.
And the ability to have structured data or a resume or for Kubernetes or something like that in YAML is also really, really mandatory learning.
So make sure you don't skip those videos on JSON and YAML. And to a lesser degree, Tommel, I'll do a video on Tommel. I made the logo, by the way.
But JSON and YAML are way worth your time more than XML. But now you know what it is.